** Basic Level(SQL Question) **

Q. What is SQL?
Ans: SQL (Structured Query Language) is a standard programming language used to interact with relational databases. It is used to store, retrieve, update, and delete
data. SQL is also used to create and modify database structures such as tables, views, and indexes.
Example:  SELECT * FROM Employees;
This query retrieves all the records from the Employees table.

Q. What is a Database?
Ans: database is an organized collection of data that is stored and managed electronically. It allows users to efficiently store, retrieve, update, and manage
data. Databases are used to handle large amounts of information in various applications such as websites, business systems, and applications.
Example: A customer database in an e-commerce website may store customer details like name, email, contact number, and purchase history.

Q. What are the types of SQL commands?
Ans: SQL commands are categorized into five types based on their functionality:
1. DDL (Data Definition Language) – Defines the structure of the database. (CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE)
2. DML (Data Manipulation Language) – Manages data stored in the database. (SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE)
3. DCL (Data Control Language) – Controls access to the data. (GRANT, REVOKE)
4. TCL (Transaction Control Language) – Manages transactions in the database. (COMMIT, ROLLBACK, SAVEPOINT)
5. DQL (Data Query Language) – Retrieves data from the database. (SELECT)

Q. What is Primary Key?
Ans: A Primary Key is a column or a combination of columns in a table that uniquely identifies each row in that table. It does not allow NULL values and must 
always contain unique values.
Key Features:
1. Uniquely identifies each record
2. Cannot have duplicate values
3. Cannot contain NULL values
4. Only one primary key is allowed per table

Q. What is Foreign Key?
Ans: A Foreign Key is a column or combination of columns in one table that refers to the Primary Key in another table. It is used to create a relationship between 
two tables and enforce referential integrity.
Key Features:
1. Establishes a relationship between two tables
2. Can contain duplicate values
3. Can accept NULL values
4. Helps maintain data consistency

Q. What is UNIQUE Key?
Ans: A UNIQUE Key is a "constraint" that ensures all values in a column or combination of columns are distinct across all rows in the table. 
It prevents duplicate values but allows NULL values.
Key Features:
1. Ensures uniqueness of each record in the column
2. Allows NULL value (depending on the database)
3. Multiple UNIQUE keys can be defined in a table
4. Helps maintain data integrity

Q. What is the Difference Between Primary Key and UNIQUE Key? 
Ans: Primary Key
      1. Uniquely identifies each row in a table. 
      2. Does not allow NULL values. 
      3. Only one primary key is allowed per table.
      4. Automatically creates a unique clustered index.
      5. Used to uniquely identify a record.
     
     UNIQUE Key
      1. Ensures all values in the column are unique
      2. Allows one NULL value (in most databases)
      3. Multiple UNIQUE keys can be defined in a table
      4. Creates a unique non-clustered index 
      5. Used to enforce uniqueness in a column without being a primary identifier

Q. What is NOT NULL Constraint?
Ans: The NOT NULL constraint ensures that a column cannot have NULL values. It is used to enforce that every row must have a value in that column.
Key Features:
1. Prevents insertion of NULL values
2. Ensures mandatory fields have data
3. Can be applied to one or more columns

Q. What is Default Constraint?
Ans: The Default Constraint provides a default value for a column when no value is specified during the insertion of a new record.
Key Features:
1. Automatically assigns a default value if no value is provided
2. Helps avoid NULL values in specific columns
3. Can be applied to any data type
4. Can be applied to one or more columns

Q. What is the Difference Between DELETE, TRUNCATE, and DROP?
Ans: DELETE
        1. Removes specific rows based on a condition using the WHERE clause
        2. Supports COMMIT and ROLLBACK (because it is a DML operation)
        3. Does not change the table structure
        4. Slower for large database (Row-by-Row Deletion)

     TRUNCATE
        1. Removes all rows from a table at once (no WHERE clause).
        2. Cannot be rolled back easily in some databases.
        3. Does not affect the structure of the table — columns, constraints, and schema remain.
        4. Very fast because it deallocates data pages instead of deleting row by row.

     DROP
        1. Removes the entire table (structure + data).
        2. Cannot be rolled back once committed (DDL operation).
        3. Affects the structure — the table definition itself is deleted from the database.
        4. Fast because it simply removes metadata and storage allocation for the table

What are Joins in SQL?
Joins in SQL are used to combine data from two or more tables based on a related column
between them.
Types of Joins:
1.INNER JOIN – Returns only matching rows from both tables.
2.LEFT JOIN – Returns all rows from the left table and matching rows from the right table.
RIGHT JOIN – Returns all rows from the right table and matching rows from the left
table.
3.
4.FULL JOIN – Returns all rows from both tables (matching and non-matching).
5.SELF JOIN – Joins a table with itself.
6.CROSS JOIN – Returns the Cartesian product of both tables (all possible combinations).

What is INNER JOIN?
INNER JOIN is used to combine rows from two or more tables based on a matching
condition between them. It returns only those records where the specified condition is true in
both tables.
Key Features:
Returns matching rows from both tables
Ignores unmatched rows
Most commonly used type of join


What is LEFT JOIN?
LEFT JOIN is used to return all records from the left table and the matching records from the
right table. If no match is found, the result will contain NULL values from the right table.
Key Features:
Returns all rows from the left table
Returns matching rows from the right table
Displays NULL for non-matching rows from the right table

What is RIGHT JOIN?
RIGHT JOIN is used to return all records from the right table and the matching records from the
left table. If no match is found, the result will contain NULL values from the left table.
Key Features:
Returns all rows from the right table
Returns matching rows from the left table
Displays NULL for non-matching rows from the left table

What is Full join
FULL JOIN combines the results of both LEFT JOIN and RIGHT JOIN. It returns all records
from both tables, with matching rows from both sides where available. If there is no match, the
result will contain NULL values on the side where no match was found.
Key Features:
Returns all rows from both tables
Displays NULL where there is no match
Useful to find unmatched records in both tables

What is self join 
Self Join is a type of join where a table is joined with itself to compare rows within the same table.
It is used when a table contains a hierarchical relationship or when comparing values in the same
table.
Key Features:
Joins a table with itself
Requires table aliases to differentiate table instances
Used to compare rows within the same table
